#summary A summary of changes in each version of the package

= Version 0.48 =
  * Added "validation" methods to univariateTTest and univariateWilcox functions.

= Version 0.46 =
  * `q.value`s are added to `twoWayAnova` result.
  * `oneWayAnova` return object column headers updated.
  * Now when calling `allpairsTTest`, it is possible to pass additional arguments to `t.test` function (please check the help documentation of `t.test` function). The names of items in the list returned by `allpairsTTest` updated as "t.statistic" and "p.value" for consistency.
  * When is.logged=TRUE, meanSem() function antilogs the data before computing mean and SEM.
  * Added a function meanCI(). This is recommended over meanSem() when is.logged=TRUE

= Version 0.45 =

  * The function medianQuartile() is now renamed to medianCI() and as the name suggests, it now calculates 95% confidence interval of the median instead of first and third quartiles.
  * univariateTTest() now returns mean values and standard errors of mean besides the p-value and q-value.
  * univariateTTest() now accepts additional optional arguments (is.logged and log.base) to get the mean values in the right scale.
  * univariateWilcox() now returns median values and 95% CI of median besides the p-value and q-value.
  * In the result of univariateTTest() and univariateWilcox() the title of the p-value column is now "p.value" and that of q-value is "q.value".

= Version 0.44 =
  * In univariateOddsRatio() and allpairslogOdds() functions, the confidence interval calculation is now replaced by confint() function from MASS package.
  * selectVariables() and selectSamples() functions are removed. Please use _dataset[subset,]_ (or _dataset[,subset]_) to retrieve a _subset_ of samples (or features) from a _Dataset_ object _dataset_.
  * A new method "aroundmean" added to zero imputation.
  * PCA method has been removed. It is replaced by a PCA reference class.

= Version 0.43 =
  * A new method "aroundhalfmin" added to the zero imputation. It is the default zero imputation method now. This method adds a little noise around half of the minimum of the non-zero values.
  * Scaling of the PCA has been modified.