#summary Hierarchical clustering and colored dendrogram

= Introduction =

The function `colhclust` allows calculation of hierarchical clustering. The result returned by this function can be displayed as a colored dendrogram where colors are defined by a group variable.

= Function interface =

{{{colhclust(Object, labels, color)}}}
  * `Object`: an object of class `Dataset`.
  * `labels`: a character string specifying the column name of sample metadata that contains the labels to annotate the leafs of the tree.
  * `color`: a character string specifying the column name of sample metadata that contains a grouping variable based on which leafs are colored.

= Available signatures =

  # {{{colhclust("Dataset", "character", "character")}}} i.e. all arguments are supplied. Entries from the sample metadata column specified by `labels` will be displayed for leaf labels. The number of distinct colors equal to the number of levels in the sample metadata column specified by `color` are used for the display of leaf labels.
  # {{{colhclust("Dataset", "missing", "character")}}} i.e. the argument `labels` can be missing while `Object` and `color` are present. In this case, the sample names are used as labels.

= Examples =
If `dataset` is an object of `Dataset` class with columns "SampleLabels" and "DiseaseGroup" among the columns of sample metadata, the following code examples can be used
  #
{{{
hc <- colhclust(dataset, "SampleLabels", "DiseaseGroup")
plot(hc)
}}}
  #
{{{
hc <- colhclust(dataset, "DiseaseGroup")
plot(hc)
}}}