#summary Input formats and required contents for creating Dataset objects from CSV files or data.frame objects.

=Introduction=

This document introduces how the input data should be provided to [ReadingTheData create a _Dataset_ object]. In this document, the arguments _metabolomicsDataSource_, _sampleMetaDataSource_, and _variableMetaDataSource_ are referred to as _data_, _sample metadata_ and _variable metadata_ respectively. A Dataset object can be created from a [FileFormats#Content_of_the_data_when_no_meta_data_is_present single input], two inputs (one for [FileFormats#Content_of_the_data_when_meta_data_is_present data] and the other for [FileFormats#Content_of_the_sample_meta_data sample meta data]), or three inputs (one for [FileFormats#Content_of_the_data_when_meta_data_is_present data], other for [FileFormats#Content_of_the_sample_meta_data sample meta data], and still another for [FileFormats#Content_of_the_variable_meta_data variable meta data]. The sources providing the data or meta data can be either all files or all data.frame objects. If the data is provided via files, then comma separated values (CSV) file format should be used. When the data is provided as a CSV file, the first row of the CSV file contains the names (i.e. titles) of the columns. In contrast, when the data is provided as a data.frame object, it has them as its column names. Other than this, the rules of the data content and titles are identical for CSV files and data.frame objects.

==Example files==

The quickest way to learn the data file format is to take a look at the example files. So, before giving long explanation about the data files, I point you to the example files. If you are going to create a _Dataset_ object using one single input file, it should look like [http://code.google.com/p/metadar/source/browse/trunk/examples/egData_standalone.csv this].

==CSV file delimiter and decimal symbol==

The input data file should be a delimited text file. By default the delimiter is assumed to be a comma (,). That is, the default file format is a comma separated value (CSV). But the delimiter can be a semicolon (;) or a tab (\t) or alike. When the delimiter is not the default comma (,), then an argument {{{sep}}} must be used when [ReadingTheData creating the Dataset]. Another related aspect is the decimal symbol. By default, the decimal symbol is assumed to be a period (.). If it is different (e.g. a comma), then an argument {{{dec}}} must be used when [ReadingTheData creating the Dataset]. Please check the help document of the R function {{{read.table}}} for more details.

=The content of the data source=

The data source must contain a column titled {{{ID}}}. The {{{ID}}} column is not allowed to have duplicate entries. Each row corresponds to one feature (i.e. one metabolite). The {{{ID}}} entry in each row is the unique ID for that feature. The remaining columns of the data source usually correspond to biological samples. The entry that corresponds to a feature _i_ and a sample _j_ represents the measured level of the feature in that sample, and it must be a number. The data source must always contain {{{ID}}} column and a non-empty set of samples, and the sample columns should have the sample names as their titles. The sample names should not have duplicates. Note, however, that the data input will be successful even if the sample names have duplicates and R simply appends .1, .2 etc at the end of any duplicated names to make them unique. But it is recommended that care is taken so that sample names do not have any duplicates. Especially, if the sample meta data is provided in a separate input care must be taken so that the corresponding sample names match between the data source and sample meta data source.

[FileFormats#Content_of_the_data_when_no_meta_data_is_present When creating the Dataset object from a single input], there can be additional columns in the data source providing variable (i.e. feature) meta data.

==Content of the data when no meta data is present==

When the Dataset is created from a single input file, the file must contain in its second row, one single meta data variable. (NOTE: if the Dataset was created from a single input data.frame object, this corresponds to the first row in the data.frame). If the data is from a case control study, this meta data variable is typically the class variable that designates each sample as a case or control. If the data contains samples from several groups (e.g. healthy controls and several sub types of a disease), then this second row typically indicates the group of the samples (i.e. designates each column to be a control, or disease type1, disease type2 and so on). This single meta data variable can also be a real number (e.g. fasting glucose level).

This data file is not allowed to have any other columns than {{{ID}}} and the sample columns. Also, the {{{ID}}} column must be the first column in the data file.

Note that when the [ReadingTheData Dataset object is created] from the single input file, the single meta data variable provided in the file goes into the meta data field of the Dataset object, and the variable will always be called "Class" irrespective of whether it actually is a class variable (i.e. categorical variable) or a real number.

==Format of the data file when a meta data file is present==

When the Dataset is created from two input files (i.e. one corresponding to the data and the other corresponding to the meta data), then all the rows of the data file (except the first row that has the column headers) must correspond to the features of the data set. The {{{ID}}} column can be anywhere. If there are any columns other than the {{{ID}}} and the samples that are described in the accompanying meta data file, they will be ignored.

=Format of the meta data files=

The purpose of the meta data file is to provide description of each biological sample in the data set. It must contain a column titled {{{SampleName}}}, and the entries of this column must be the sample names of the data set (i.e. they should match the sample names of the data file). If the {{{SampleName}}} column has any duplicate entries, the data input will fail. Typically the meta data file provides clinical variables including information such as disease group. Note that the meta data file is not allowed to include any samples that are not in the accompanying data file. If it does, the data input will fail with an {{{index out of bounds error}}}. But, if the data file has samples that are not in the meta data file, they will be simply ignored.

The information provided in a preceding section about the delimiters and/or decimal separators also applies to the meta data file.

=Notes=
A Dataset object can hold any data, not necessarily only metabolomics or lipidomics data. The only condition is that the data values are numbers. For example, a factor variable such as the gender can be a feature in a Dataset as long as it is represented in numerical codes. The gender for instance can be coded as 0 for female and 1 for male (or vice versa).

Everything that is said about data files in the preceding sections applies also to the input data frames except the issues with delimiters and decimal separators.