#summary Introduction to the package and table of contents.

= Introduction =

Welcome! This package consists of many convenience functions to perform a variety of statistical analysis of metabolomics data. The methods are not limited to metabolomics data alone and should be applicable to any numerical data matrix, but the most important data that I have access to is metabolomics. The main purpose of writing this package is to make my own life easy in my daily routine of data analysis. [Installation Here] are the instructions for installing this package. This package wouldn't exist without R community. I am obviously [Thanks indebted] to the developers of R, Bioconductor and developers of the many R packages!

Capabilities of this package are listed here.

==Data import and processing==
  * [ReadingTheData Input of metabolomics data sets] (well, any numerical data set will work) and their meta data in Bioconductor {{{ExpressionSet}}} format.
  * [NAOmit Removing] the peaks with missing measurements (i.e. removing NA's)
  * [ZeroFiltering Filtering] zero intensity peaks
  * [ZeroImputation Zero imputation]
  * [LogTransform Transformation] of data into log scale

==Univariate statistics & statistical hypothesis tests==
  * [OneWayAnova One-way anova and post-hoc test] (Tukey Honestly Significant Differences).
  * [TwoWayAnova Two-way anova and post-hoc test] (Tukey Honestly Significant Differences).
  * [TTest Student's T-test] and [Wilcoxon Wilcoxon rank sum or signed rank test] for each variable in the data set.
  * [MeanSem Mean values and standard errors of mean] for each variable in two or more sample groups.
  * [MeanCI Mean values and 95% CI of mean] for each variable in two or more sample groups.
  * [MedianCI Median values and 95% CI of median] for each variable in two or more sample groups.
  * [FoldChanges Fold changes] for each variable in the data set.
  * [UnivariateAUC Area under the ROC curve] for each variable in the data set.
  * [UnivariateCorrelation Correlation coefficient] of each variable with a selected variable of interest.
  * [AllPairsCorrelation All pairs correlation]: correlation between every pair of variables in a data set & correlation between variables in two data sets (i.e. every variable in data set 1 versus every variable in data set 2).
  * [AllPairsTTest All pairs t-test]: Students t-test for every variable in a data set with respect to every variable in another data set containing binary variables.
==Graphics==
  * [BoxPlots Box plots] and [BeanPlots bean plots]
  * [ColoredHClust Hierarchical clustering dendrogram]
==Classification & regression models==
  * A classification model using logistic regression
  * A classification model using random forest
  * Evaluation of prediction performance of a logistic regression using cross validation
  * Evaluation of prediction performance of a random forest model using CV
==Multivariate analysis==
  * [PCAClass Principal component analysis]
  * [Mclustering Model based clustering] using *mclust*