#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

The function `univariateWilcox` allows performing Wilcoxon's [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wilcoxon_signed-rank_test signed rank test] (when samples are paired) or [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mann%E2%80%93Whitney_U rank sum test] (when samples are not paired) for each feature in a `Dataset` object for a non-parametric comparison between a pair of sample groups.

= Function interface =

{{{univariateWilcox(Object, covariate, paired=FALSE, ...)}}}
  * `Object`: an object of class `Dataset`. A Wilcoxon rank sum test or signed rank test will be performed on each feature of this data set. `Object` is a required argument.
  * `covariate`: a string specifying the name of the sample metadata column that has the group variable. Note that the specified column should have a factor with exactly two levels. `covariate` is a required argument.
  * `paired`: a logical value specifying whether test should be performed by assuming that there is a pairing of samples between groups defined by `covariate`. This can be missing and the default value is FALSE.
  * `...`: optional additional arguments to be passed to `wilcox.test` function of the `stats` package in R.

= Available signatures =

{{{univariateTTest(Object="Dataset", covariate="character", paired=FALSE, ...)}}}: i.e. `Object` and `covariate` are required arguments and they should be of classes `Dataset` and `character` respectively. The argument `paired` could be missing. When missing, the default value of `paired = FALSE` is assumed. Additional arguments can be passed to `wilcox.test` function (please check the help document of the `wilcox.test` function).

= Results =

The result of the function univariateWilcox is a data frame with a row for each feature in the input `Dataset` object. It contains the following columns.

  * `Median` columns: two columns providing the median values of both the `covariate` groups. These column names start with "Median" but depend on the names of the `covariate` groups.

  * 95% confidence intervals of medians: two columns providing the lower and upper bound of 95% CI for median for each `covariate` group. The names of the columns containing the lower bound of the 95% CI start with "95% CIL", but depend on the names of the `covariate` groups.  The names of the columns containing the upper bound of the 95% CI start with "95% CIU", but depend on the names of the `covariate` groups.
  * `p.value`: a column titled "p.value" providing the p-value (i.e. the probability of the observing the test statistic value if the null hypothesis that _no difference between the groups exist_ were true)
  * `q.value`: an adjusted p-value considering the multiple hypotheses testing. They are computed using `p.adjust` function of `stats` package using Benjamini-Hochberg method.